---
title: "Post_17May2022"
date: 2022-05-17T10:45:53-04:00
draft: false
---

# Outline of Project

The area of my research in my proposed project idea is data analytics. Currently I am trying to access reviews off of the popular online game shop called Steam and categorize them into a format of positive and negative reviews. From there, I can also access the user's profile to see what other games they have left a postive or negative review of where I can gather similarities in data among different games. I can then set up a recommendation system to another user to see what specifically what type of games a specific audience enjoys. Say for instance that a user likes Real-Time Strategy(RTS) games. A lot of assumptions are that people who like RTS will like Multiplayer Online Battle Arenas(MOBA), but that isn't actually the case according to some research. The reason why this is important stands from a marketing perspective because if people are advertising the wrong type of game to a user base off of the assumption that they looks similar, then there is a huge missed opportunity for the game because no one is actually interested. In addition, just because a person likes a certain game, doesn't mean they will like other games from the same genre.
 
The most apparent problem that has been written in literature is how to recommend a game to someone. There are so many different ways in which someone can recommend a game where it can be based around either the games that the user plays or what just so happens to be popular at the time. However, all of these research papers don't really take into account the diversity of one's taste or experimentation as well. The goal for this project is to create a concise, but also diverse method to recommend a game to a user so that a user can experiment but also be familiar with what they are given.
 
I would consider this part to be the Gap of my project as there is a lot of information out there in regards to the recommendation of entertainment which can be seen with social media, but there isn't nearly as great of a focus as there is for video games. Though usually just finding what's most popular is a good go to, this also leaves out a lot of untapped potential for smaller indie games to come out and become phenomenons without the push from a large content creator. In addition, a lot of the time, people who are paid to review games are often bribed by the companies to say better things about certain games to generate more hype and possibly more revenue. Because of that, reviews from everyday users become more reliable sources of recommendation as they are not paid, they are just bias.
 
This was also one of my main motivations behind this project as I originally wanted to make a comparison between game reviews between organizations and users of the platform steam. The reason for this is because a lot of the time, video game companies are not very reliable when it comes to giving accurate reviews of gameplay because they are typically bought out by the developers who made the game. However, that project was a bit too simple for what I wanted the end result to be. So instead I changed this motivation to developing a recommendation tool to users who are looking for either familiar games, or games that are new because I've noticed one day that the recommendation system on steam is only providing me games that are popular within a certain genre rather than things that are higher rated or fit more of my niche. Because I found data analytics interesting, and wanted to be recommended games that better fit my niche, I wanted to develop my own recommendation software. This eventually developed my research question which was, how can I get video game recommendations that best fit my niche?
 
The feasibility of my project is actually quite manageable as the main goal of this project is to scrape information from steam and categorize people's usernames and reviews along with their public accounts. From there we can put it down in multiple datasets where we can look to see names that pop up in other games. For a project like this, there isn't too much of a limit other than my own knowledge on the matter as the tasks themselves are not the most difficult, but that's not to say that I won't stumble upon a few road bumps here and there. From that point, I believe that I can make this project much more accurate with its recommendations if I were to follow this research further down the line.
 
Upon developing the prototype, the first challenge that I needed to overcome was my lack of knowledge regarding the process of webscraping, or even the concept of webscraping. Before going into this project, I had no ideas on any tools that I could use or even the correct terminology on how to proceed with the project. In order to overcome this challenge, I turned to my professor to get a better understanding of the scale of the project that I was about to embark on. After several meetings, I had managed to collect several resources and discovered several tools that I can use to help me with my project. The most important tool that was provided to me would have to have been Beautiful Soup. Beautiful Soup is a webscraping software that is used to access the html files from websites and pull data from it in a manner that is best fit for the person using it. First I had to start small with the prototype because I had no idea how to use Beautiful Soup or how html really worked, but after a few hours of research and youtube videos, I had managed to get a decent understanding of what I needed to do for my project. This plays into the feasibility of my project as I needed to understand the tools and the kind of process I was required to understand what it was that I was doing. After going through the motions of research, I found that the project that I had given myself was actually a lot more difficult than what I had originally anticipated, but that didn't stop me from attempting to try it out.
 
My first prototype for my project's objective was to just try and scrape information from the website Steam just to try and dip my toes into the water before deep diving into anything more sophisticated. The first goal was to just simply create an infinite scroller that scanned through the entirety of the best sellers on Steam and try and see if they were providing any discounts on the games. The code itself is relatively simple as all you really need to do is create a URL to the html file for the steam page, and from there you try and pull from the headers that label the aspects necessary for the code to function. In this case we needed the headers that stated the price and the discount price. In addition, we want to get the game title as well. I also wanted to implement a feature that would get the overall rating of the game, however the header for that information was a different output rather than a string and I couldn't figure out how to print it in my program after about an hour of research. So I gave up on this task and proceeded with the others which worked just fine.
 
Once I had finished the first stage of my prototype, it was time to start doing something a bit more complicated. Rather than the main goal being just able to get information from the best seller page on Steam, now I want to webscrape all the reviews of a game, pull the reviews whether they be positive or negative, seeing how many hours they put into the game, and get the usernames of all the individuals that posted their review on the website. This stage turned out to be significantly more difficult than the previous one, but it was necessary in order for me to take the next step in being able to make the final product that I had originally set out to do. After a couple hours of making more or less the exact same, and inefficient code as the previous prototype, this time the challenge being that, there was just too much information for me to just categorize. In addition, I want to be able to save this information for when the program is finished running on an excel file so that I can use that dataset again to get compare it with another game further down the line with my project. Luckly after looking up tutorials on how to do aspects of my project, I was able to find something that would help me out. That item was a webscraper for Steam as well, but for scowering commented reviews rather than user profiles. Within that project, he had code that allowed me to access the user's public information by getting the names of everyone that commented as well as whether the review was positive or negative. This helpped out a lot as not only did it give me exactly what I was looking for, it also provided me with a method that was significantly easier to do and require much less code and ran much more optimally compared to the code that I had originally done.
 
The results of the experiment were almost a success had it not been for the fact that I was missing a few installations that were require for the code to run that I am currently trying to figure out. Outside of the fact that the code doesn't work on my local device, when I ran it as a ipynd, which is an online simulation of running a python file and it worked fine. Not entirely sure why this is the case, but I'll look into it more later down the line so that it doesn't become a problem for when I have to run the code on my local device. Unfortunately, as of right now I have no method of visualizing the output of my project as the only output is a excel file that simply contains all the information that the code was looking for. I haven't developed a method to compare or make a visual aid for so that will have to come at a later time.
 
My main ethical concern in regards to this project is I am accessing people's profiles without the consent of putting them into a dataset. Though this won't affect them directly and they have made their profile public for the world to see, I am still accessing their information such as their user profiles and as well as their usernames for this project which could be considered an invasion of privacy. There is no work around with this but because each of these individuals who posted a review has set their profile to public, the ethics of this are not nearly as severe as if I were to take all the information that they've put into their account, such as credit card information, or their chat logs.
 
The next step in my project is to now continue with the construction of my prototype until it is no longer a prototype, as well as continue my research on how to optimize the code that is required for it. It is clear to me that I still lack the knowledge that is required for this project to be fully realized as of right now and still need to do further research on certain aspects of it. From there we can take this to the next step where I can test this with other people and get their opinions on the matter as they could also give me further suggestions on different things that I can improve on and what I can do to make the product easier for them to use.